Here is some information on how snow days are decided:

Several factors are considered when making the decision to close or delay the school day. Please keep in mind that the Rockford Public School District covers approximately 97 square miles, 
so the weather and road conditions can be significantly different from one area to the next. On any given day, we transport 5,000 to 6,000 of our 8,000 students. We do our best to make reasonable 
and practical decisions based on forecasts, which are sometimes accurate and sometimes not. Here are a few of the steps used determine whether to close or delay school:
We monitor wind chill, wind speed, temperature and precipitation amounts.
We close school when the wind chill is a sustained -20F or colder. However, even if the wind chill is not sustained -20F or lower, we can still close the schools if the roads are too hazardous to drive on.
We consult with the county road commission on the road conditions and plowing schedules.
District officials monitor weather reports and talk to neighboring districts.
Finally, district officials and staff physically drive out to several areas multiple times throughout the evening, night and morning to check road conditions.

Here is the thought process from the Superintendent at Rockford Public Schools in trying to decide a snow day:

At 4:15 AM on Friday morning I started communicating with Superintendents in Region 1 of Kent County. Region 1 includes Cedar Springs, Sparta, Kent City, Comstock Park, Kenowa Hills, Northview, and Rockford. 
Our conversation centered around the weather, road conditions, and whether we should cancel school.
At 4:53 AM I received a call from our Assistant Superintendent of Finance and Administration. He had been just hung up from talking to one of our transportation staff who drives the roads on snowy mornings for the district. 
The message received was that roads were very slushy and hazardous and that it was still snowing. It was also noted that no plowing of roads had started.
At 4:55 AM I made the decision to close the Rockford Public Schools for the day.
At 4:56 AM I posted on Twitter and Instagram a message indicating Rockford would be closed on Friday. (As a reminder you can follow me @docsmatthews for district updates.)
At 5:00 AM I started working on sending messages out via School Messenger.
The first message was an email. It was sent at 5:10 AM. I received it in my email box at 5:13 AM.
The next message was a text. It was sent at 5:12 AM. I received the text at 5:16 AM.
The next message was a phone call. I delayed the message to be sent after 5:30 AM because I did not want to send a phone call too early to our families and staff but realized that some of our staff start on the road to school shortly after 5:30 AM. 
I received my call at 5:37 AM.
My messages were not sent early enough for a group of high school lacrosse players who were reporting to the high school at 5:30 AM for conditioning. I apologize that my messages were not timely and that some students and parents ended up on the road this morning.
In calling snow days, I consider a variety of factors. Will the roads be safe? Will our parking lots and sidewalks be cleared? Can staff, who live all over the greater Grand Rapids area be able to get to school on time? What kind of delays would road conditions 
and traffic cause our buses?
It is not an exact science. I appreciate your understanding as we work through winter weather.
Dr. Steve Matthews
Superintendent
Rockford Public Schools